Weather Without by Dominic Newman
Surely little will outlast West Welsh houses, They hold fast in the western weather's blast.
When the wet Welsh wind is big, Mast or trunk, like straw or twig,
West Welsh houses only dig Hewn heels further into hills.
Western weather finds and fills every crevice, Gusts like drills, deafen heaven, beaches teem,
Waves maraud and woodlands scream.
In foundation, wall and beam, West Welsh houses, though, are made firm against the rainstorm's raid,
Stout of hearth and finely laid down in stone That shall not fail, hail of gable in a gale,
Storch in every joint and nail.
Rows and rows are sworn to guard West Welsh hearts against the hard rain,
However swayed and scarred.
Snuggly purged along the steep western hillsides, Each shall keep stories, music, breath and sleep,
Safe and sound for years on end.
Side by side, they shall defend West Welsh souls and will not bend.